convert lowercase name files to uppercase
set limit so that user cannot create files larger than 1mb
schedule recurring task that run every Monday 3 am
apply commit for another branch without merging whole branch
find duplicate lines in large files
how to ensure to run the job only after multiple jobs run--->build after other project
store secrets in jenkins-->env vars and credentials
how do you simulate high memory usage for testing*********************stress
if it is only pushed to specific folder in git trepo--pipeline should trigger---> changeset (other than multibrach-pipe)
want to use Jenkins tags 
Jenkins buiils is failng randomly so want to cleanup ---how?
Jenkins job failed with permission Denied-->what to do?---?check script perms to execute or not
deploy apps with zero downtime
shellscript runs manually file but in Jenkins failimg




clone private GitHub repo
delete blank lines
check ip address of host-->hostname -s
user cant ssh into server-->check port/server status up/down /logs
service keep crashing-->what could be issue
backup all .conf files in etc
how do you secure jenkins--matrix/
pass parameters to jennkins pipeline
how to create shared libraries 
what happens if pipeline fail in middle--complete job will fail
server has high load but low cpu usage--->high io wait /zombie processes
delete and arcgieve log files older than 30 days


setup Jenkins jon to trigger on every push
loop through list of files and print line count
	for file in *.log; do
  echo "$file: $(wc -l < "$file")"
done

for i in range(3):
    print(i)
else:
    print("Done")

print(type(type(5)))

a = [1, 2, 3]
b = a
a = [4, 5, 6]
print(b)

print([] or "Python")
print("apple" > "Apple")-->true -->lowercase has high asciii
print(3 * [7])
print(3 * "7")
print("hi" * 3)
print((1, 2) * 3)
valdate the o/p of shell command in python
lowercase filenames to uppercase

—————————-

-manager wants to overcome cost of licences, infrastructure, maintenance etc: SAAS
-write IAM policy on different scenarios
-accessing resource for short duration: sts assume role
-why chose inline policy over managed policy? does it override managed policy
-from within ec2 instance how do u verify which IAM role is currently being used
-ur ec2 instance cant connect to the internet? route table?
-how do u give only read access to aws via cli
-company uses gmail
-which model do u prefer for jenkins with control over plugins
-why mumbai over hyderabad region?
-run a application without developer knowledge: SAAS?
-dev wants to write code directly on browser: PAAS
——————-

ideal ec2 instance, low cpu for one hour and shut it down
for 10 managed policies do we pay
unable to log in ec2 instance? what could be reason? how to check?
what is sys check
what could be the reason that logs are not coming into log group
2 by 2 check
can u increase memory of existing instance
what options available in instance in console
how to alert if there is "error" in cloudwatch log
delayed SNS alert? reason?
*what is pubic ip and private ip? why instance gets a different public ip everytime?
how on prem application communicated temporarily with s3?
*accidentally deleted pem file
reason for insufficient data in alarm
accidentally deleted access key
cannot SSH into ec2 instance
——-/////

components of EC2 instance--> left panel
track memory utilization in cloudwatch agent
list some global services in AWS
dashboard to track mem usaage of all servers under one domain(application)
can we create alarm for 2/2 status check
will s3 bucket chargeable?
———///—/

1. post build actions in jenkins pipeline apart from success, failure and always.
2. If your CI/CD build is failing during artifact upload in automatic pipelines but succeeds manually
3.Upload in the wrong path in jfrog how to rectify this
4.How do we ensure the sonarque failes when the build quality fails tell me script
5.does sonar generate the reports ? How to generate the report 
6.If your CI/CD pipeline deployed a build with an error, but the error is not in the code itself. how to rectify this
———-

1. Introduction to AWS and IAM
2. IAM,Users,groups,Roles and MFA
3. AssumeRole,SNS and CloudWatch
4. Introduction to VPC, Elastic IP and EndPoints
5. NACl,Sg,Vpc Peering,TransitGateway,VPC flow
6. EC2,AMI, EC2-Purchasing and instance types 
7. EBS and EFS
8. LoadBalancer and Autoscaling
9. s3
———//

ebs vs efs
horizontal vs vertical scaling
ext4 vs xfs
~example of sftp and FTP usage
which AWS service automates AMI creation-->EC2 image builder
increase root volume size of running ec2 Instance with no downtime
accidentally deleted important snapshot how to recover it
how to avoid paying for unused EBS capacity
EFS(regional) in us-east1  ec2 in us-west-2-->can we mount filesystems--------------->No
deployed EFS in ec2 but ec2 not able to mount it, what checks need to be done--->NFS port 2049 should be open in security group
2 ec2 in diff AZ need to share resources with low latency-->EFS or EBS--- >EFS
3 ec2 instances need to communicate each other over private network
Gaming app with low latencty, which load balancer--NLB
EC2 is working fine in Linux but failing in ubuntu
two ec2 in different VPCs not able to connect even after port is allowed --->SG,NACL
outdated AMI, need to update with new packages without breaking deployment---->
create AMI from instance without root voulmes attached to it-->EBS is mandatory
can we track versions of AMI
accidentally deleted AMI, but snapshot is there can we recover AMI from snapshot
EBS volumes shows degraded performance, how to troubleshoot
prevent accidental deletion of EBS --snapshotlock
A volume's FileSystem is corrupted, how do you recover it
migrate millions of small files to EFS very quickly, whick service do you use-->AWS data sync
mounted EFS but you see its costing more, what could be the reason and how will you avoid it
————

1. You have an EC2 instance with an EBS root volume, and the instance is accidentally terminated but you need the root volume data.


2. “Delete on Termination” is enabled for the EBS root volume — how would you still keep a backup?


3. You need to move an EBS volume from one Availability Zone to another.


4. Your application is slow, and you suspect it’s due to the EBS volume type — how do you confirm and troubleshoot?


5. You want EC2 instances to automatically adjust so the average CPU utilization stays at 50%.


6. You have EC2 instances in multiple Availability Zones that need to share the same file system in real time.
————

11/08/2025

1. What is a Load Balancer (LB)?
2. What is a Target Group?
3. Can we use the same Target Group in different Load Balancers?
4. When you keep all servers inside a Target Group, what does it mean? What happens if you remove servers from it?
5. How do you define in the Load Balancer which Target Group to use?
6. How many types of forwarding requests can be sent to a Target Group? (e.g., HTTP, HTTPS, path-based, host-based)
7. What is priority and weightage in a Load Balancer?
8. What parameters do you set for internet-facing vs private Load Balancers?
9. What is the meaning of downtime?
10. What do you mean by HTTP and HTTPS? How to convert HTTP to HTTPS?
11. How do you replace an SSL certificate in a Load Balancer?
12. Where do you check LB logs?
13. What graphs do you see in the Monitoring tab of LB?
14. How do you check which Target Group is unhealthy from the Monitoring tab?
15. What other alerts/alarms can you set in LB?
16. What alarms can be configured for a Load Balancer?
17. Which application is used internally? (internal LB)
18. What do you consider healthy and unhealthy in a Load Balancer?
19. What is the port number for internet traffic?
20. Different types of Load Balancers?
21. Example of an Application Load Balancer (ALB) in the market.
22. How do you create an entire Load Balancer setup end-to-end?
23. What is Auto Scaling?
24. How does Auto Scaling sense traffic to increase or decrease servers? (Parameters it considers)
25. How to set up Dynamic Scaling in Auto Scaling?
26. What is scaling protection in Auto Scaling?
27. What is the configuration process for Auto Scaling?
28. Why is a Launch Template required for Auto Scaling?
29. What is vertical scaling and horizontal scaling?
30. In which case will you pick vertical scaling vs dynamic scaling? Reasons?
31. How do you create a fresh Auto Scaling group including Target Group and Load Balancer?
32. How does your Auto Scaling system in the organization work? What thresholds do you monitor (CPU, memory, etc.)?
33. What monitoring options do you see from the Auto Scaling group page? (Example graphs)
34. In Auto Scaling, what does the status “Healthy” mean?
35. Give some example healthy API response codes.
36. How do you remove one server from Auto Scaling?
37. When you decrease desired capacity (e.g., 10 to 5), are the removed instances terminated or kept in the console?
38. How do you set a server to Standby mode?
39. What is scale-in protection?
40. What are the additional configurations in Auto Scaling?
———

12/08/2025

1. Your EC2 instance is experiencing high CPU utilization during traffic spikes. How would you ensure the application scales correctly?
2. In an Auto Scaling Group, the number of instances reduces even without traffic. Why could this happen?
3. You have 20 EC2 instances launched from the same AMI. You need to upgrade the application to version V2 without manually updating each instance. How would you do this?
4. Your EC2 instances generate logs that need to be sent to CloudWatch Logs. How would you set this up?
5. You have an EC2 instance in a VPC that needs access to a private S3 bucket. How would you grant access only to that instance?
6. Your application runs in a private subnet and needs access to S3 without using a public IP. How would you set this up?
7. You need to replicate all S3 bucket data to another AWS region for disaster recovery. How would you configure this?
8. You have a high-traffic application behind an Application Load Balancer and want users to be routed to the same instance consistently. How would you configure this?
9. How would you configure an Auto Scaling Group to always have a minimum of two EC2 instances, even during low traffic?
10.How would you design a VPC with private subnets that do not have direct internet access?
11. You need Auto Scaling to trigger an alarm when the instance count drops below what is required to handle traffic. How would you configure this?
12. You have five servers behind a Network Load Balancer, but traffic is not reaching three of them. What could be the possible cause?
13. How would you restrict access to an S3 bucket so that only specific IP addresses can access the objects?
14. What is S3 versioning, why would you use it, and how would you enable it?
15. You want to monitor EC2 CPU utilization and get notified when it exceeds 80% for more than five minutes. How would you configure this?
16. How would you launch an EC2 instance with minimal cost?
17. How would you connect your on-premises data center to an AWS VPC securely and privately?
18. You want to isolate specific VPC resources so that only certain IAM users can access them. How would you do this?
19. How would you create a VPC across multiple Availability Zones for high availability?
20. You have two VPCs in different AWS accounts that need to communicate. How would you enable this?
21. You are using an AMI to launch multiple instances, but it is outdated. How would you update it and use it across all required AWS regions?
22. You want to launch a new EC2 instance from an AMI but with a different instance type than the original. How would you achieve this?
23. You need to grant an IAM user read-only access to both S3 and EC2. How would you configure this?
24. You are migrating an on-premises application to AWS using a VPC, and it requires a private IP address that should not conflict with existing ranges. How would you plan this migration?
25. When would you choose horizontal scaling over vertical scaling, and vice versa?
26. You want to scale EC2 instances in an Auto Scaling Group based on health check status. How would you set this up?
27. How would you configure an Application Load Balancer health check to monitor SSL health?
———-

"What does EC2 stand for, and what is it used for?",
    "What are the types of EC2 instances?",
    "Can you provide the list of EC2 instance types, like T, M series?",
    "What does T series mean, like t2.micro?",
    "Explain launch instance configuration.",
    "What is user data?",
    "How to update user data?",
    "How to change instance type?",
    "How to update EBS from 200GB to 500GB?",
    "Explain simple steps to modify volume size, extend partition, and verify in OS.",
    "List steps to extend the partition and filesystem on an EC2 instance.",
    "What is throughput and IOPS?",
    "How do we calculate the IOPS?",
    "Is IOPS calculated as (VolumeReadOps + VolumeWriteOps) per second?",
    "What is the calculation for throughput?",
    "Is throughput calculated as (VolumeReadBytes + VolumeWriteBytes) / sec?",
    "What is downtime in Load Balancer?",
    "What is the difference between HTTP and HTTPS?",
    "Where do we use HTTP/HTTPS in Load Balancer?",
    "How to set and replace SSL certificate?",
    "How to check Load Balancer logs?",
    "What alarms can be set for the Load Balancer?",
    "Where do we set these alarms?",
    "How do we know which Load Balancer is unhealthy?",
    "What parameters do we consider for internal and internet Load Balancers?",
    "Which applications use which Load Balancer?",
    "What is priority and weightage in Load Balancer?",
    "How does Load Balancer understand if traffic is high or low?",
    "What is Layer 7 and Layer 4 in OSI model (in ALB and NLB)?",
    "Examples of Layer 4 and Layer 7 Load Balancers.",
    "Is NLB an internet or internal Load Balancer?",
    "Which port is used for internet traffic?",
    "What are the ports for TCP and UDP?",
    "What is dynamic scaling in Auto Scaling?",
    "How do we check the health of Load Balancer?",
    "In Auto Scaling, what are the additional configuration settings?",
    "What is a Target Group?",
    "If I remove a server from the Target Group, what happens?",
    "In Auto Scaling, what triggers scaling up or down?",
    "How does Auto Scaling detect if the Load Balancer is up or down?",
    "Is Auto Scaling configured in Load Balancer?",
    "What can we monitor in Auto Scaling?",
    "What does 'Healthy' status mean in Auto Scaling?",
    "How do we consider an instance healthy?",
    "I want to remove a server from Auto Scaling.",
    "What is 'Standby' in Auto Scaling Group?",
    "In which scenarios do we choose vertical vs horizontal scaling?",
    "Can we add a server into a Target Group?",
    "Can we use different Target Groups in one Load Balancer?",
    "What is priority and weightage?",
    "How many types of requests can we send to a Target Group?"
——-